The Obama administration has expressed deep concerns to the governors of New York and New Jersey and is consulting with them to modify their orders to quarantine medical volunteers returning from West Africa as President Obama seeks to quickly develop a new, nationwide policy for the workers, according to two senior administration officials. 

One administration official said the federal government has been pressing the governors to back off their decisions, which quarantine all medical workers who had contact with Ebola patients. But another official said the administration has not specifically asked the governors to reverse their policies. 

Mr. Obama held a meeting with his top advisers at the White House on Sunday as officials work to craft a policy that reassures Americans that they are protected from the virus while following the guidance of the government's scientific advisers. Officials said that policy will be ready in days and that the government would urge all states to follow it. 

On Sunday both governors, Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and Chris Christie of New Jersey, stood by their decisions, saying that the current federal guidelines did not go far enough.

At the same time, the first person to be forced into isolation under the new protocols, Kaci Hickox, a nurse returning from Sierra Leone, planned to mount a legal challenge to the quarantine order. Despite having no symptoms, she has been kept under quarantine at a hospital in New Jersey, where she has been confined to a tent equipped with a portable toilet and no shower. On Sunday, she spoke to CNN about the way she has been treated, describing it as "inhumane."

The rapidly escalating events played out both privately, in intense negotiations and phone calls between federal and state officials, as well as publicly in Ms. Hickox's pointed criticism of the New Jersey governor.

Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Sunday that the way Ms. Hickox had been treated was shameful and vowed that New York City would do all it could to honor the work of the health care workers here and those who go help fight the epidemic in West Africa.

"The problem here is, this hero, coming back from the front having done the right things was treated with disrespect," Mr. de Blasio said.

"We have to think how we treat the people who are doing this noble work," he said. "We owe her better than that."

He said there have been reports that nurses who work at Bellevue have been stigmatized, with people refusing to serve them food or treating their children differently. Such behavior was unacceptable, he said.

"The people who work at Bellevue are the Marines of our health care system," he said. "They understand what their duty is, and they are only too proud to perform it."

Ever since Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, and Mr. Christie, a Republican, announced the plan at a hastily called news conference on Friday evening, top Obama administration officials have been speaking with Mr. Cuomo daily and have also been in touch with Mr. Christie, trying to get them to modify the order. But Mr. Christie said at a fund-raiser in Florida that he had "gotten absolutely no contact" from the White House.

But in that time, two more states - Illinois and Florida - announced that they were instituting similar policies, as some members of the public expressed outrage that the infected patient in New York City had used the subway and gone bowling just before developing symptoms.

Federal officials made it clear that they do not agree with the governors about the need or effectiveness of a total quarantine for health care workers, though they were careful not to directly criticize the governors themselves.

A senior administration official, who did not want to be identified in order to discuss private conversations with state officials on the issue, called the decision by the governors "uncoordinated, very hurried, an immediate reaction to the New York City case that doesn't comport with science."

Indeed, Mr. Christie said he did not consult with the White House about the decision. "I did not let them know," he said in a brief interview in Boca Raton, Fla., where he was campaigning for the state's Republican governor, Rick Scott.

The United States is sending thousands of military personnel and other federal workers to the West African countries hit hardest by the virus, and a mandatory quarantine could make sending personnel to those countries more difficult, officials said.

The decision to institute a mandatory quarantine came after a New York doctor, Craig Spencer, received a diagnosis of Ebola on Thursday, having contracted the virus while working in Guinea for Doctors Without Borders. He is being treated at Bellevue Hospital Center, where he is in serious but stable condition. "The patient looks better than yesterday," Dr. Ramanathan Raju, the president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, said on Sunday.

The decision for mandatory quarantines has not only opened a rift with federal officials, but also between New York City and the state.

Having seen the disorganized way officials in Dallas implemented quarantine orders for people who came into contact with Thomas Duncan, the first person to be diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, New York City officials were determined to do better.

One key part of their strategy was to ensure that they were able to meet all the needs of those placed in isolation, making their time as comfortable as possible.

The plans called for monitors to be assigned to each quarantined family or individual and dedicated solely to help them get meals, stay in contact with loved ones and have a clear line of communication with officials.

On Friday night, those carefully laid plans were thrown aside when Mr. Christie and Mr. Cuomo called for the mandatory quarantine.

"The entire city was not informed, even the mayor's office," according to a city official involved in New York's Ebola response. "The mayor was caught unaware."

"The big picture decision was made in the absence of any deep thinking about what implementing the policy would entail," the official said.

As for Ms. Hickox, her plane happened to land precisely at the wrong moment.

"This nurse just happened to land mid-conversation between the two governors," the official said.

Ms. Hickox spoke out about her treatment in her interview with CNN on Sunday, saying that officials still have not told her what they plan to do next or why they are isolating her since she poses no public health risk as long as she remains asymptomatic.

She also blasted Mr. Christie for saying that she was sick, when it was clear that she did not have a fever and had tested negative for Ebola.

"The first thing I would say to Governor Christie is that I wish he would be more careful about his statements about my medical condition," she said from inside the medical tent where she has been quarantined since Friday night. "If he knew anything about Ebola, he would know that asymptomatic people are not infectious."

"I also want to be treated with compassion and humanity, and I don't feel I've been treated that way in the past three days," she said in the interview. "I think this is an extreme that is really unacceptable. I feel like my basic human rights have been violated."

Ms. Hickox has retained a well-known civil rights lawyer, Norman Siegel, to challenge the quarantine order and get her out of isolation. In an interview on Sunday, he said the order "raised substantial civil liberties issues."

"The policy infringes on Kaci Hickox's constitutional liberty interests," he said. "The policy is overly broad as applied to Ms. Hickox and we are preparing to challenge it on her behalf."

Mr. Christie, speaking earlier on Fox News Sunday, defended the policy.

"We've taken this action and I have absolutely no second thoughts about it," he said.

Members of the administration challenged the wisdom of the quarantine order and the way it was being implemented.

Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, arrived in Guinea's capital Conakry on Sunday on the first leg of a tour through the three West African nations hardest hit by the epidemic and spoke out about the critical need for more health care workers to join the fight against the virus.

"All of us need to make clear what these health workers mean to us and how much we value their services, how much we value their contribution," Ms. Power said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "We need to make sure they are treated like conquering heroes and not in any other way."

Public health experts have pushed against stricter measures such as quarantining returning travelers without symptoms, arguing the effort is overkill and could actually serve to harm the effort in West Africa, where the disease is still exploding.

They argue that controlling the virus where it is raging is the only way to reduce the risk to zero for Americans, and that existing federal policy, with changes already set to take effect Monday, achieves the delicate balance of precautionary measures that do not impede broader efforts in Africa.

Under that policy, any traveler retuning from Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea will be required to report their temperatures to their local health authorities. They will also be required to give health officials the names and addresses of their relatives and where they will be staying in the three weeks after they arrive, the approximate amount of time the disease takes to incubate.

Administration officials said that the current discussions at the White House would consider whether more measures are necessary.

Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute for Allergies and Infectious Disease, said it was vital not to do anything that might interfere with the flow of health workers to West Africa.

"The harm is that it is totally disruptive of their life. We want them to go because they are helping us to protect America to be over there," Dr. Fauci said on CNN.

A person infected with Ebola is not infectious until they show symptoms of the virus. The sicker someone becomes, the greater the risk of contagion. Ebola is transmitted through contact with bodily fluids, not through the air.

The new quarantine policy could have an immediate effect on people working for one of the organizations that has been leading the effort the contain the spread of Ebola, Doctors Without Borders.

A total of 52 people from the United States have worked with Doctors Without Borders in West Africa on the Ebola response since it began in March, according to a spokesperson for the group. Of these, 31 are currently at work in West Africa. Twenty of those 31 individuals are scheduled to return sometime in the next four weeks.

"Every time someone tightens that noose, health workers from the United States say, 'Well, I'm not sure it's worth that sacrifice,'" said James P. Mitchum, the chief executive officer of Heart to Heart International, a charity that is working in Liberia.

Mr. Christie was dismissive of the concerns voiced by both the administration and public health officials.

"It was my conclusion that we needed to do this to protect the public health of the people of New Jersey," Mr. Christie said. "I have great respect for Dr. Fauci, but what he's counting on is a voluntary system in which folks may or may not comply."

Ms. Hickox, the nurse, said that not only was Mr. Christie's thinking flawed, but the implementation of the policy was a disaster.

"I think one of the things about this policy is that it is obviously poorly planned out," she said.

She added, "We don't need politicians to make these kinds of decisions. We need public health experts to make these decisions."