As if the theoretical heat of playing in the last Grand Slam tournament of the year were not enough to keep the United States Open interesting, the actual heat added several more degrees of difficulty on Wednesday.The first player to wilt in the 90-degree day was the fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska, who continued a drab string of performances at the ,  with a 6-3, 6-4 loss to unseeded Peng Shuai of China in a second-round match. Sloane Stephens, seeded 21st, joined the downward spiral, banging out 63 unforced errors to lose, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, to the unseeded Johanna Larsson of Sweden. No. 31 Kurumi Nara followed suit, falling to 17-year-old Belinda Bencic of Switzerland, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1.For a while, it looked as if Maria Sharapova and her No. 5 seed were headed for an uncharacteristic early exit as well when she lost the first set to the unseeded Alexandra Dulgheru of Romania with a rash of unforced errors and double faults. But she regained control of her game, and the match, and powered through for a 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, victory.The heat took a physical toll on some men, whose matches stretched into the sweltering afternoon. Marcos Baghdatis retired in the second set, allowing the No. 14 seed Marin Cilic to advance. Ivan Dodig was in the fifth set against the No. 19 Feliciano L\\xf3pez when he could play no more.The American Steve Johnson retired from his match when he began battling cramps in the fourth set against Tatsuma Ito of Japan, even though he was winning two sets to one.At one point early in the fourth, Johnson collapsed on the court and medical personnel rushed a wheelchair onto the court. He did get up with assistance, but could play only one more game.Johnson and Itos day was already long. They were forced to wait through No. 18 Kevin Andersons four-hour, five-set victory over Pablo Cuevas in the first match of the day on Court 17.The issue was not always the heat. For Radwanska, at least, some of it was the accumulation of bad feelings she has collected over her nine Open appearances, none of them lasting more than four rounds.Maybe I will find a way to play better here and just try another way to be in the second week, she said. There is just something here that I cant really pass those rounds.I didnt play bad today. I think it was just her day.Peng, a 28-year-old ranked 39th, defeated a top-five opponent for only the fourth time in 26 matches and for the first time since 2011. She has had most of her success in doubles, winning the Wimbledon title in 2013 and the French Open this year with Hsieh Su-Wei.Pengs backhand was strong throughout the match, with 15 winners. She earned a match point by winning a 27-stroke rally with a backhand winner down the line. She closed out the match on the next point with a crosscourt backhand that just dropped into the corner.The only time in their four career meetings that Peng has beaten Radwanska came at the Open in 2010. They met the next season in the Round of 16 at the Australian Open, when Peng had two match points she could not convert.So maybe I saw from long time the lucky may be coming back today, Peng said. Today when I play I know she was really tough, one of top players, because she never miss and shes running so fast. A really smart player. And then for the match I was really happy today.Radwanskas loss would have seemingly opened an opportunity for Stephens in that quarter of the draw, but that opportunity was lost in a shaky performance indicative of Stephenss inconsistent season.But the Open is usually where Stephens, 21, stars. She had never lost before the third round, and Larsson had not advanced past the first round until this year. She is ranked 96th and had not previously made it out of the first round in any of the Grand Slams except the French Open, where she reached the third round this year.It has, however, left her with not much to lose when she plays.I just tell myself to go for it, Larsson said. You dont win matches by holding back.After winning the first set, Stephens was up a break, at 3-0, in the second when, she said, Things just got a little shaky. She lost three consecutive games, making 10 errors, and then she was broken at 4-4 after making three unforced errors and double-faulting on break point. Larsson closed on the set in the next game.Stephens was also ahead by a break, 2-0, in the third set, but lost the last six games of the match. It was the 11th tournament this year in which Stephens failed to get past the second round.Im not going to dwell on it, she said. There is always room for improvement. Everyone has their ups and downs. Everyone goes through times like this. Im not the first person and wont be the last.No. 2 Simona Halep and No. 6 Angelique Kerber were among the seeded players who found the conditions less than troubling. Halep dropped the first two games against Jana Cepelova of Slovakia and faced two break points for a potential 3-0 deficit. But she slammed home several winners and righted herself. She lost only one more game in a 6-2, 6-1 victory.Kerber needed only a few more games to beat Alla Kudryavtseva of Russia, 6-2, 6-4. Roberta Vinci, seeded No. 28, needed to work much harder to beat Irina-Camelia Begu of Romania, 2-6, 6-4, 6-1.In the evening at Arthur Ashe Stadium, the 19th-seeded Venus Williams had another impressive showing, overpowering Timea Bacsinszky, 6-1, 6-4. The 34-year-old Williams gave a throwback performance in the first set, committing only five unforced errors in a set that lasted only 31 minutes.Bacsinszky steadied herself in the second set, but Williams fought back from 0-30 to win her first break in the second, 5-4. Williams proceeded to serve out the match and wound up winning all nine of her service games.I won a match again, said Williams, who reached the third round for the first time since 2010. Finally I did something I couldnt do the last couple of years. Thats good stuff.In a mens match that looked as if it might produce a few fireworks, No. 6 Tomas Berdych played Lleyton Hewitt, whose remarkably long career included an Open title in 2001. But Hewitt had few weapons left in his game that could threaten Berdych, who won, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3, at Ashe Stadium.